Now we're ready to submit our form.
The first step is to make a post request.
So a get request is when the client is requesting a resource, but when they want to submit data to
our application, then they need to make a post request.
So when the user presses submit, the post request is going to carry all of the user input to our spring
boot back end the post request payload will have as many parameters as there are fields attached to
each input, so there will be a name parameter that equals the name input, a score parameter that equals
the score inputs and a subject parameter that equals the subject inputs.
Okay, now we have all of this data being carried back to our application.
We need something to receive that data.
So step two is to create a handler method that accepts the post request.
All right.
And then step three, the handler method needs to specify an object that can receive the payload inside
the post request.
Obviously, it's going to specify a grade object.
And then in step four, which we don't have to do ourselves behind the scenes, Spring Boot is going
to create an MBTI grade object, and it's going to use your setters to update every field in the object
with payload from the post request.
So it's going to start off by creating an empty grade object.
And it's going to use your sweaters to update every single field in this object with payload from the
post request.
This object that spring boot creates for us behind the scenes is going to be wired to our grade parameter.
And then step five is to update the data store.
So back here, this form was designed to make a post request when the client presses on the submit button,
whereas that post request going to go well, we can direct the post request of a form using the leaf
attribute action.
And you may have guessed it, we're going to use a link expression to specify a URL endpoint.
The URL is context relative, so it's already going to consider the local host 8080.
So we can just specify a path of handle submit.
So a post request is going to be made on handle submit that's going to carry all of this user input.
So what we can do is back inside of the great controller.
Are going to map this post request using post mapping.
We're going to map the post request made on path slash handle submit.
To a handler method called.
Submit grade.
So now we have a handler method that intercepts the post request, but we need to specify a grade object
that receives the payload that's being carried by the post request.
And so behind the scenes, what Spring Boot is going to do is create an empty grade object using your
empty constructor, and it's going to use your setters to update every single field inside of this grade
object with payload from the post request.
All right.
This is something you'll visualize in the next breakpoint session.
And when a grade is submitted, we're going to add that grade to our array list so we can remove all
of this hardcoded data and just set this equal to a new array list.
Of great objects.
And then we can say.
Student grades dot add and we're going to add the submitted grade object.
Then I will return.
ABC.
Okay.
Now, before I continue, let me just add a two string method real quick and print the great object
Java code generators generate to string.
All right, I will print the grade object.
Go back here.
Oh, and one more thing is, when we load our form, we're passing in an object that's already pre-populated.
We want our form to start off as empty.
So we're going to start by passing in an empty grade object.
Okay.
I'm going to submit a grade for Harry.
Give him a C minus and potions.
We get an error.
I'll come back to this error in a bit, but you'll notice.
That if we were.
Well, ignoring the error that's also displayed in the terminal.
If I scroll up.
We see that the forum data was successfully received by our handler method.
We see a great object with the name of Harry, a subject of potions and a score of C minus.
So what happened was that a post request was made from our form.
That post request was directed to the path slash handle.
Submit our handler method submit grade intercepted this post request and behind the scenes spring boot
actually created an empty grade object using your empty constructor and Spring Boot was smart enough
to use your setters to update every single field in that grade.
Object with payload from the post request.
And having successfully received the payload from the post request, we were able to print the grade
object and print it successfully.
So let's go back to the error.
It's telling us that it's having trouble resolving the template A, B, C, because that template doesn't
exist.
Before I do anything, what I'm going to do is remove the two string method.
This was only for testing purposes.
Remove the print statement.
All right.
And so once the user submits the form, we update the data store.
We want to redirect the client to make a get request on slash grades.
The way to do that is to say redirect.
Redirect.
Then put a colon followed by a path.
In this case, the path is going to be slash grades.
Basically what we're telling the user is, hey, the submission completed successfully and the content
you're looking for afterwards is over here and slash grades.
So please go ahead and make a get request there.
And so the browser, the client is going to automatically make a get request on slash grade triggering
this handler method.
It's going to add this array list to the model and display the grades view.
So I think the app will end with no errors going back here.
Let's submit Harry.
Give him the usual C minus.
He was never good in potions.
We'll press submit.
Beautiful.
Now, before I get flooded with this question.
Hey, Ryan, why not just return the grade's view?
Och, I'll entertain it for now.
Let's go and submit a grade.
We'll say Harry Press submit.
There's no data.
Why not?
Well, let's think about this logically.
The rose up.
Wrong html.
The rose inside of the grades table are bound to the grades array list.
However, in this case, the handler method that returns the grades view doesn't add any model attributes.
So now am I expected to just copy the logic from the grades handler method over to here?
No way.
Submit form has no business rendering the grades templates and updating its data.
Its only purpose is to handle form submission and after it fulfills that purpose, which it does successfully,
it must redirect the client.
So we'll say redirect.
Slash grades.
The redirection basically tells the client, Hey, the content you asked for is over here, so go ahead
and make it get request.
The browser is going to automatically make a get request to slash grades and the correct handler method
intercepts.
It adds the list as a model attribute and renders the grades templates if I rerun the app now.
And that's just beautiful.
In this lesson, the user entered data through a form.
Now this is a lot to recap, so just tune in to the next breakpoint session.